hey this is pressure Locker in a group
of six people you might find out that
some people are friends on Facebook or
you might find out that no one is
friends on Facebook there are many
different combinations for how people
can be friends or not friends on
Facebook but there is always a special
property that's true show that there is
always a group of three people where
either
all three people are mutual friends on
Facebook or all three people are
strangers
no one is friends on Facebook give this
prom a try and when you're ready keep
watching the video for the solution we
can visualize the problem using graph
theory imagine each person is the vertex
of a graph we will draw six vertices for
the six people in the group we will draw
a blue line between two vertices to
represent if the two people are friends
and we will draw a red line between two
vertices to represent if the two people
are not friends from a given vertex we
can have between 0 & 5 blue lines which
is accompanied by 5 to 0 red lines we're
going to draw five lines from one vertex
and whichever lines are not blue will
have to be red so from this one vertex
we will always have 1 2 3 4 or 5 blue
lines or 0 blue lines and whichever
lines are not blue will be red so if we
have 4 blue lines we'll have one red
line if we have three blue lines we'll
have two red lines and so on the number
of red lines and blue lines always adds
up to 5 because of this we will always
have at least 3 blue lines or at least 3
red lines will consider each case
separately
let's first consider that there are at
least three blue lines what we do now is
we'll look at the vertices which are
connected by blue lines look at the
friends of this person if any of these
two people are friends we will form a
group of three people in which all three
are mutual friends in other words we
will graphically have a blue triangle
these are three people who are mutual
friends what would happen if a none of
them are friends well in that case we
would have to draw a red line between
each of these three vertices this would
represent that these three people are
not friends with each other on Facebook
so we formed a red triangle which means
these three people are mutual strangers
so we proven that we will always have at
least three mutual friends or at least
three mutual strangers now let's
consider the other case where we have at
least three or more red lines now we'll
look at the connected vertices in other
words we'll look at the people who are
not friends with this person now if none
of these people are friends with each
other if any of these people are
strangers we're going to form a red
triangle will have three mutual
strangers the other case is that all of
these people are friends with each other
in that case we'll have to connect these
three vertices with blue lines which
means these are three people who are
mutual friends so what we've shown by
considering these two cases is that no
matter how we draw this graph no matter
how these six people our friends are not
friends we always end up with a group of
three people who are mutual friends
that's a blue triangle or we have three
people who are mutual strangers which is
a red triangle it's always going to be
true
this is sometimes known as the
friendship theorem and it's an example
of Ramsey theory did you figure out this
puzzle thanks for watching this video
please subscribe to my channel I make
videos on math and game theory you can
catch me on my blog mind your decisions
which you can follow on Facebook Google+
and patreon you can catch me on social
media at pressure Locker and if you
liked this video please check out my
books there links in the video
description